University of the Witwatersrand

-   Principal investigator (PI): Bruce Becker (CSIR Meraka Institute)

-   Host institution: Wits University

-   Full title: Continuous Delivery of Research Applications in
    Distributed Environment

-   Proposal short name: CODE-RADE

-   Proposal duration: 10 months

Problem Statement
=================

One of the aims of e-Infrastructures is to provide easy access to
powerful computational and data platforms, to as many eligible users as
possible. The South African National Grid (SAGrid), as part of the
National Integrated Cyberinfrastructure System is no exception. While
access to the users is being simplified greatly by the adoption of
science gateways and identity federations, the community of application
developers and technical support in scientific collaborations does not
yet have an easy way to integrate these applications in the first place.

SAGrid has identified this as a gap in the services it provides and has
developed a solution to the issue of easily integrating new applications
into the infrastructure in a fast, flexible, distributed and
reproducible way. Using existing tools and services, we have defined a
simple set of tests which applications need to pass in order to be
considered valid for the infrastructure. These can been encoded as
automated tests using a continuous integration platform such as Jenkins.
Interoperability between source code repositories, automated build
systems, artifact creation and content delivery systems is crucial for
the sustainability and uptake of the system; we will describe the work
done and the reasoning behind the technology choices made.

We will show how the porting of applications can be made more
reproducible, and how distribution of these applications has been
simplified, compared to “traditional” means of deploying software on the
grid and cloud. In particular, we will highlight the ease of
collaboration. We thus describe a slightly different type of “science
gateway”, relevant to application developers, which promotes
collaboration, increases reproducibility of the work done, and ensures
that there is a sustainable development of applications for Science
Gateways connected to the African e-Infrastructure.

References
==========

NICIS

Jenkins

